---
layout: post
title: About a liberal arts education
---

As an engineering student in Germany, I sometimes feel that everything is too
technical. One of the things I liked the most about my 2 Quarters at UCSC were
the General Education Requirements (ironically, the fact that these Subjects
were better than the engineering ones fueled my decision of moving to Germany).
I had a couple of writing classes, and a really interesting one about the
history of London, New York, and Paris, from a Literature perspective. 

Right now, at what Germans call a *technical University* I deal only with
Engineering-related topics. Which is not bad, if you want to graduate in the
kinda crazy regulatory time of 3 years. However, it is quite easy to fall into
the trap of thinking that engineering and coding is absolutely everything. I
kind of sometimes just need a break from that. 

When I talk to most of my friends that are studying either Humanities or Social
Sciences, I often joke about how they could learn that by themselves. Being an
advocate of self learnign myself, I want to give it a try, too. I don't want to
follow a strict curriculum, though, given the fact that the _actual_ university
takes a load of my time. That's why I was quite glad when scrolling among my
infinite list of bookmarks I stumbled upon an interesting page:[How to get a
liberal arts
education]([https://www.diygenius.com/how-to-get-a-liberal-arts-education-without-going-to-university/)
and was even more surprised that it basically consists of a Reading List of
"essential" books. It claims to include *many of history's most imporant books*
(and after a quick glance it looks like it might live up to it's description).
It includes 119 entries, and it claims that at a pace of one book per 2 weeks,
you might be able to finish in 4 years. 

Quite frankly, this list is one of the resasons for me starting this blog.
Previously I've had some trouble with completing most of the MOOCs I've started.
But they have always been technical ones, focusing more on less on computers and
mathematics. I intend on using part of this blog as a tool to 
  1. Commit to the cause, using the principle of Making it public = Making it happen.
  2. Force my to use active methods, of commenting and reflecting on the
     readings 
  3. Keep track of my progress
  4. Hopefully create a discussion with other people, about or related to the
     readings.

There are some details I want to clarify:
  * I do intend to do the curriculum, however I allow myself to change the
     order of the readings inside of their Time Period
  * I might leave out some for the sake of time (reading the whole bible, and
     properly studying it will most certainly require an immense amount of time)
  * Due to the amount of work on other not necessarily more *important* but
    definitely more *urgent* things, and the size of the texts, I might need to
    be more flexible with the deadlines

I've always struggled with finding some sort of *balance* among different areas
in my life, and I think that this will be a good oportunity to feed my *soul*,
which has been a little bit hungry for some time now. Its also a good way of
adding good things to do to my *to do list*. I think that for me time behaves in
an esoteric way, so that when I have more time is when  I have more things to do.

And that's all that comes to my mind right now. The list starts with the Illiad,
and I'm looking forwards to that. Let's see how it goes. 
